

# Review

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Python Compile Process</span>

1. Python source file (.py7)-> Python cache file (.pyc) / 이 과정을 compile이라고 한다.
2. Python에는 CPython, Jython 등등 Python을 wrapping 하고 있는 여러 언어들이 있다. / 만약 CPython을 사용하고 있다면 python source file이 C language로 compile된다.
3. .py -> .pyc 상세한 과정을 서술한다면 source file parsing -> token으로 만든다. -> token -> abstract syntax tree / byte code object 생성.
4. 즉 .pyc가 byte code이며 이 byte code는 Python Virtual Machine에서 interpret된다.
5. Python Virtual Machine이 run through line by line하며 binary executable code를 생성하면 이 코드를 CPU가 실행한다.


##### Compiling steps

1. Initialization
2. Parse tree and abstract syntax generation
3. Bytecode generation and Optimization
4. Code object optimization and execution



** Virtual Machine

There are two level language
1. Low-level language (C)
2. High-level language(Java, Python)

Low-level language is platform dependent language and C compile source code directly binary executable code. And The developer should install compiler that consider O.S or CPU architecture. Platform dependent.

High-Level language is non-platform dependent langaugae and they have another step when they compile source code that is intermediate code or Byte code.
And High-level langugae has software that called virtual machine. Virtual machine is the one that generate Byte code(intermediate code) software.

Virtual Machine take a role of interpreting byte code and translate platform dependent code that CUP can execute binary executable code.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Tokenizer, Lexer, Parser</span>

