
##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Input / Output</span>

In computing, input/output is the communication between an information processing system, possibly a human or another information processing system.

Inputs are the signals or data received by the system and outputs are the signals or data sent from it. 
The term can also be used as part of an action; to perform I/O is to perform an input or output operation.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>I/O devices</span>

I/O devices are the pieces of hardware used by a human(or other system) to communicate with a computer. For instance, a keyboard or computer mouse is an input device for a computer, while monitors and printers are output devices.

Devices for communication between computers, such as modems and network cards, typically perform both input and output operations.

Any interaction with the system by an interactor is an input and the reaction the system responds is called the output.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Asynchronous I/O</span>

In computer science, asynchronous I/O (also non-sequential I/O) is a form of input/ output processing that permits other processing to continue before the I/O operation has finished.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>File I/O</span>

- Reading information into a program
	A program uses an input stream to <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>read</span> data from a source, one item at a time.

- Writing information from a program
	A program uses an output stream to <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>write</span> data to a destination, one item at time.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Device Driver</span>

In computing, a device driver is a computer program that operates or controls a particular type of device that is attached to a computer or automation.

A driver provides <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>a software interface to hardware devices</span>, enabling operating systems and other computer programs to access hardware functions without needing to know precise details about the hardware being used.

A driver communicates with the device through the computer bus or communications subsystem to which the hardware connects.

The main purpose of device drivers is to<span style='color:#eb3b5a'> provide abstraction by acting as a translator between  a hardware device and the applications or operating systems that use it.</span>

Programmers can write higher-level application code independently of whatever specific hardware the end-user is using.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Kernel Mode Drivers</span>

Kernel mode drivers run in the same memory space as the operating system kernel, which is the core component of the system that manages resources, processes, and security.
This means that kernel mode drivers have direct access to the hardware and can perform faster and more efficiently than user mode drivers. However, this also means that kernel mode drivers have more power and responsibility, and can potentially cause system crashes, corruption, or compromise if they are faulty, malicious, or exploted.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>User Mode Drivers</span>

User mode drivers run in a separate memory space from the kernel, which is called the user mode. This means that user mode drivers have to communicate with the hardware through a special interface provided bythe kernel, which is called the Windows Driver Model. This adds an extra layer of abstraction and protection, but also reduces the performance and functionality of the drivers. User mode drivers are more isolated and restricted and can only affect their own processes if they fail or misbehave.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Function (Computer programming)</span>

In computer porgramming, the technology that is called function, subprogram, procedure, method, routine or subroutine is a sequence of instruction that has a well-defined behavior and can be invoked within a computer program to exihibit that behavior.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Device controller</span>

A device controller is a ssytem that handles the incoming and outgoing signals of the CPU by acting as a bridge between CPU and the I/O devices. 
A device is connected to the computer via a plug and socket, and the socket is connected to a device controller.

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Device-Operating System Communication</span>

The device controller receives the data from a connected device and stores it temporarily in some special purpose registers (local buffer) inside the controller. Then it communicates the data with a Device Driver. For each device controller there is an equivalent device which is the standard interface through which the device controller communicates withthe operaing systems through Interrupts.


# Memo

1. Input / Output은 두 개 이상의 communication 대상이 필요하다.
	인간 / 컴퓨터 | 컴퓨터 / 컴퓨터

2. 컴퓨터를 예로 들면 keyboard, mouse는 computer에게 인간이 보내는 data 및 signal -> input

3. monitor는 컴퓨터가 인간에게 보내는 data 및 signal로 output이다.


Device Driver

In computing, a device driver is a computer program that operates or controls a particular type of device that is attached to a computer or automation.

Abstration??? 
	enabling operating systems and other computer programs to access hardware funcitons <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>without needing to know precise details about the hardware being used</span>





































Input / Output

communication 하고자 하는 두 개 이상의 대상이 필요하다.

한 쪽에서 data나 signal을 받는(receive) 것을 input이라고 한다면 
그 상대방이 data나 signal을 보내는(send) 것을 output이라고 한다.

컴퓨터와 인간의 I/O에서는 keyboard, mouse가 컴퓨터에 대한 input이 되고 monitor는 컴퓨터가 인간에게 보내는 output이다.

