
## File Descriptor and IO mode
#File #I/O 

>  For sockets, readability means there is some <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>unread data in the _receive_ buffer</span>. That is well-known and probably the most common use case for non-blocking I/O. Conversely, <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>writeability implies the _send_ buffer is not full</span> from the standpoint of the underlying protocol of the socket (e.g. TCP/IP). Ultimately, protocol-specific congestion control determines the exact mechanisms and policies for the send buffer.
>  
>  For pipes, <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>readability means some unread data remains in the pipe buffer</span>, or <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>one task is blocking in a write to the other end of the pipe</span>. Reciprocally, writeability means the pipe buffer has available room, or <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>one task is blocking in a read operation on the pipe.</span>
> 
>  FIFOs are really exactly like pipes, except that they have a name in the file system hierarchy.
>  
>  Terminals and pseudo-terminals also work much like pipes, with regards to I/O, except for the fact that they support duplex operations like sockets.
>  
>  For devices (other than terminals), polling is implementation-defined. You need to check the device driver documentation.
>  
>  For directories, reading is only defined through blocking (synchronous) function calls, notably `readdir()` or `readdir_r()`. As such polling is not defined by the specifications and it would be of no use even if it were. Also writing to directories is not allowed at all.
>  
>  <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>Regular files are **always** readable and they are also **always** writeable.</span> This is clearly stated in the relevant POSIX specifications. **I cannot stress this enough. Putting a regular file in non-blocking has ABSOLUTELY no effects** other than changing one bit in the file flags. 
> 


## Mmap
#kernel #I/O #File 
<span style='color:#fa8231; font-size: 18'>나의 정리</span>

- memory mapped file -> memory를 file처럼 이용하겠다.

- TCP/IP는 network device(NIC)의 protocol을 이용하여 다른 host machine(remote host)들과 network를 통해 communication을 하겠다라는 것이라면.

- Mmap은 main memory device를 이용하겠다.

<span style='color:#0fb9b1; font-size:18'>Docs</span>

>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQYio0aKbgM&t=176s
- mapping files into memory
	- 기존의 File I/O는 system call을 통해 main memory에 buffer를 두고 file IO를 해야했다면 mmap은 file을 memory에 직접적으로 mapping 하고 사용하기 때문에 <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>system call 및 buffer를 통한 file 입출력과는 다른 개념의 IO를 수행한다.</span>
- <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>Proces의 address space에 mapped file을 할당하고 IO를 수행한다.</span>

- <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>결국 mmap 또한 IPC의 한 방법이다.!!</span>

---

## Mechanism of reading and writing file 
#kernel #I/O #File 

> https://www.quora.com/In-C-wherever-we-want-to-read-from-or-write-to-a-file-is-the-file-always-loaded-into-the-main-memory-from-the-disk

<span style='color:#f7b731'>Read</span>
-  When you read from a file (or device), data is moved from the file (or device) into memory from buffer or not anyway.

<span style='color:#f7b731'>Write</span>
-  When you write data to a file (or device), data is moved from memory to the file (or device)

<span style='color:#f7b731'>Deep dive into</span>

- Your program might request that 100 bytes be read from a file into memory, but the low level might require a minimum transfer of 512 bytes, and the operating system might want to read two consecutive 512 bytes chunks in anticipation of your potential request to read more data from the file. So, the OS might get 1024 bytes, and then hand your application only the bytes you requested.

- If you ask to read the next 100 bytes from the file, they are already in memory, and can just be handed to you without accessing the device.

- Likewise, to improve preformance, many sequential writes from your application to a file might not be written to the actual file until you close the file or fflush the output stream.
---

# Memo

def  \_\_init__(self, maxsize=0, \*, ctx)

	In Python, the asterisk `*` in the middle of parameter 
	lists indicates a separation between positional and keyword-only arguments.

### AWS CPU cores
#aws

- cpu core - 1 / threads 2
> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/cpu-options-supported-instances-values.html

