
##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Stack-based memory allocation</span>

Stacks in computing architecrures are regions of memory where data is added or removed in a last-in-first-out manner.

In most modern computer systems, each thread has a reserved region of memory referred to as its stack. When a function executes, it may add some of its local state data to the top of the stack; when the function exits it is responsible for removing that data from the stack. At a minimum, a thread's stack is used to store the location of a return address provided by the caller in order to allow return statements to return to the correct location.

If, however, the data needs to be kept in some form, then it must be copied from the stack to the heap before the function exits. Therefore, stack based allocation is suitable for temporary data or data which is no longer required after the current function exits.

Since the call stack is organized as a stack, the caller pushes the return address onto the stack, and the called subroutine, when it finishes, pulls or pops the return address off the call stack and transfers control to that address.

As noted above, the primary purpose of a call stack is to store the return address. 
##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>abstraction</span>

In software engineering and computer science, abstraction is the process of generalizing concrete details, such as attributes, away from the study of objects and systems to focus attention on details of greater importance.

The software is structured in architectures to enable humans to create the enormous systems by concentrating on a few issues at a time.

function 또한 추상화된 job unit이지 않을까?

function의 signature에 따라 필요한 parameter를 input으로 넣으면 그 function 내부의 코드는 굳이 알지 않아도 input에 대한 output이 나오는 형태를 생각해 보면 이것 또한 추상화중 하나가 아닐까 라는 생각이 든다.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Why I should heap sort on the way of bottom up way?</span>

bottom up 방식은 결과지향적이라는 생각이 든다.


# Memo 

우리가 heap을 사용해야 하는 이유는?

1. stack memory가 보유한 memory size가 작다는 점.
2. 때때로 compile time에 정확하게 정할 수 있는 요소가 없는 data가 있다는 점.
3. random하다. non-deterministic하다. 어떤 상황이 벌어질지 알 수없다.
4. 