standard output from one process becomes the standard input from another process

pipe -> one way communication only


**we can make bidirectional communication channel with two pipes

/

process fork() 이전에 pipe를 생성
> [!NOTE]
> sfsfdf
> 
fork된 child process는 pipe file descriptor를 가짐



그리고 parent process descriptor4 / write =>
child process의 descriptor 3에 **다**가 write을 한다.

그리고 그 반대.


Pipe is one-way communication only.
이 말은 진짜 한 쪽 process에서 다른 process로 read와 write을 정해놓고 그 반대는 하지 못하게 설정된 건지 아니면 상황에 맞게 read write을 다시 전환해서 사용할 수 있는지 찾아볼 필요있다.

It opens a pipe, which is an area of main memory that is treated as a "virtual file".

If a process tries to read before something is written to the pipe,
the process is suspended until something is written.


Before something is writing, if process read from pipe
then the process will be blocked

kernel buffer the data written in write ends of pipe

# pipe DESCRIPTION
- pipe() creates a pipe, a undirectional data channel that can be used for interprocess communication.
- The array pipefd is used to return two file descriptors referring to the ends of the pipe.
- Data written to the write end of the pipe is buffered by the kernel until it is read from the read end of the pipe.

# Pipe
- fork를 통한 새로운 process 생성 전. child process와 혹은 new process와 소통한 special file을 생성 -> pipe
- pipe는 one way communication -> one end : read / another end : write
- 'virtual file'

# Pipe Documentation
- Pipe is one-way communication only.
  One process write to the pipe, the other process reads from the pipe
  It opens a pipe, which is an area of main memory that is treated as a "virtual file"
- one-way communication. One process write to end then the other read from ends
- **If a process tries to read before something is written to the pipe, the process is suspended until something is written.
- 