
Atomic 

Atomic을 보장한다.
해당 트랜잭션의 연산이 완전하게 끝나는 걸 보장한다.

##### Managing database transactions

Django's default transaction behavior

Django's default behavior is to run in autocommit mode.

- Django sets transaction mode to auto commit mode but developer can handle which setting to apply on transaction mode.
- While Django's default transaction mode is auto-commit, developers have the flexibility to choose the approriate mode for their needs.

- If developer will set atomic transaction mode then developer should use atomic API.
- If the developer choose atomic transaction mode, they should leverage the available atomic APIs for data consistency.


Lock mode

1. Through Read Lock(shared lock), multiple db connection processes or threads can access the same data on each transaction, but after all of the shared lock must be realsed, write lock can be applied on that data.

Shared lock: Multiple database connections or threads can access the same data simultaneously when a shared lock is held. However, all shared locks must be released before a write lock can be acquired on that data. This ensured that no changes are made to the data while others are reading it.
3. Exclusive write lock, This lock mode will apply exclusive read lock and write lock so one process acquired this lock then  any other process can't access the same data.




##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Transaction Isolation</span> in PostgreSQL

The sql standard defines four levels of transaction isolation. The most strict is Serializable, which is defined by the standard in a paragraph which says that any concurrent execution of a set of Serializable transactions is guaranteed to produce the same effect as running them one at a time in some order. The other three levels are defined in terms of phenomena, resulting from interaction between concurrent transactions, which must not occur at each level. 

phenomena

1. dirty read
	 transaction reads data written by a concurrent uncommitted transaction.

2. nonrepeatable read
	A transaction re-reads data it has previously read and finds that data has been modified by another transaction (that committed since the initial read).

3. phantom read
	A transaction re-executes a query returning a set of rows that satisfy a search condition and finds that the set of rows satisfying the condition has changed due to another recently-committed transaction.


##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Read Committed Isolation Level</span>

Read committed is the default isolation level in Postgresql. When a transaction uses this isolation level, a select query (without a for update/ share clause) sees only data committed before the query began; it never sees either uncommitted data or changes committed by concurrent transactions during the query's execution.

However, SELECT does see the effects of previous updates executed within its own transaction, even though they are not yet committed.
Also note that two successive `SELECT` commands can see different data, even though they are within a single transaction, <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>if other transactions commit changes after the first `SELECT` starts and before the second `SELECT` starts.</span>

나의 생각:
- <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>Commit focused Isolation Level</span>

##### <span style='color:#f7b731'>Repeatable Read Isolation Level</span>

The Repeatable Read Isolation level <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>only sees data committed before the transaction began</span>

나의 생각:
- <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>Transaction focused Isolation Level</span>


Repeatable read isolation -> 

Transaction 시작이 중요하다.

Tr-A start class: 2 [100, 200]

Tr-B start class: 1 [10, 20]

class 1과 2는 committed 상태이기 때문에 trying to commit 문제 없음.
그리고 Tr-A의 insert가 빨라서 Tr-B에서 sum이 일어나기 전에 insert가 되었더라도 Tr-B는 10 + 20의 30이 insert statement로 작동할 것이다.
하지만 Read Committed Isolation level에서는 값이 바뀔 수 있음.



Shared Lock / Exclusive Lock

Shared Lock은 read에 대한 Lock이며 한 transaciton에서 read가 수행되어도 다른 transaction에서 read가 수행될 수 있다.
하지만 write을 하기 위해서는 Shared Lock이 모두 release 되어야만 한다. 

Exclusive Lock이 걸리면 read 뿐만 아니라 write (update, delete) 모두 수행할 수 없다.


















